README.md, before:

# data-structures-and-algorithms
Implementation of data structures and various associated code challenges.

Created by: Fletcher LaRue

[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/fletcher-larue/)

[NPM package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/data-structures-and-algorithms)

### Binary Trees:

- [Binary search tree (BST)](https://github.com/asdFletcher/data-structures-and-algorithms/tree/master/src/data-structures/binary-search-tree)
  - A standard binary search tree
  - Includes tests
  - Includes [readme](https://github.com/asdFletcher/data-structures-and-algorithms/tree/master/src/data-structures/binary-search-tree)
  
- [AVL Tree](https://github.com/asdFletcher/data-structures-and-algorithms/tree/master/src/data-structures/avl-tree)
  - A self-balancing binary search tree, which saves node height
  - Includes tests
  - Includes [readme](https://github.com/asdFletcher/data-structures-and-algorithms/tree/master/src/data-structures/avl-tree)
  
- [Splay Tree](https://github.com/asdFletcher/data-structures-and-algorithms/tree/master/src/data-structures/splay-tree)
  - A self-balancing binary search tree, which doesn't save height information
  - Includes tests
  - Includes [readme](https://github.com/asdFletcher/data-structures-and-algorithms/tree/master/src/data-structures/splay-tree)

### Sorting algorithms:
- [Insertion sort](https://github.com/asdFletcher/data-structures-and-algorithms/tree/master/src/code-challenges/insertionSort)
- [Quick sort](https://github.com/asdFletcher/data-structures-and-algorithms/tree/master/src/code-challenges/quickSort)
- [Radix sort](https://github.com/asdFletcher/data-structures-and-algorithms/tree/master/src/code-challenges/radixSort)

Commit message:

adds readme for RBT and edits other readmes

README.md, after:

# data-structures-and-algorithms
Implementation of data structures and various associated code challenges.

Created by: Fletcher LaRue

[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/fletcher-larue/)

Select data structures are included in an NPM package:
[NPM package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/data-structures-and-algorithms)

### Binary Trees:

- [Binary search tree (BST)](https://github.com/asdFletcher/data-structures-and-algorithms/tree/master/src/data-structures/binary-search-tree)
  - A standard binary search tree
  - Includes tests
  - Includes [readme](https://github.com/asdFletcher/data-structures-and-algorithms/tree/master/src/data-structures/binary-search-tree)
  
- [AVL Tree](https://github.com/asdFletcher/data-structures-and-algorithms/tree/master/src/data-structures/avl-tree)
  - A self-balancing binary search tree, which saves node height
  - Includes tests
  - Includes [readme](https://github.com/asdFletcher/data-structures-and-algorithms/tree/master/src/data-structures/avl-tree)
  
- [Splay Tree](https://github.com/asdFletcher/data-structures-and-algorithms/tree/master/src/data-structures/splay-tree)
  - A self-balancing binary search tree, which doesn't save height information
  - Includes tests
  - Includes [readme](https://github.com/asdFletcher/data-structures-and-algorithms/tree/master/src/data-structures/splay-tree)

- [Splay Tree](https://github.com/asdFletcher/data-structures-and-algorithms/tree/master/src/data-structures/red-black-tree)
  - A self-balancing binary search tree, which doesn't save height information, and has parent pointers
  - Includes tests
  - Includes [readme](https://github.com/asdFletcher/data-structures-and-algorithms/tree/master/src/data-structures/red-black-tree)

### Sorting algorithms:
- [Insertion sort](https://github.com/asdFletcher/data-structures-and-algorithms/tree/master/src/code-challenges/insertionSort)
- [Quick sort](https://github.com/asdFletcher/data-structures-and-algorithms/tree/master/src/code-challenges/quickSort)
- [Radix sort](https://github.com/asdFletcher/data-structures-and-algorithms/tree/master/src/code-challenges/radixSort)
